docs/en/resources/tools/dataplex/dataplex-lookup-entry.md, before:

---
title: "dataplex-lookup-entry"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: > 
  A "dataplex-lookup-entry" tool returns details of a particular entry in Dataplex Catalog.
aliases:
- /resources/tools/dataplex-lookup-entry
---

## About

A `dataplex-lookup-entry` tool returns details of a particular entry in Dataplex Catalog.
It's compatible with the following sources:

- [dataplex](../sources/dataplex.md)

`dataplex-lookup-entry` takes a required `name` parameter which contains the project and location to which the request should be attributed in the following form: projects/{project}/locations/{location} and also a required `entry` parameter which is the resource name of the entry in the following form: projects/{project}/locations/{location}/entryGroups/{entryGroup}/entries/{entry}. It also optionally accepts following parameters:
  - `view` - View to control which parts of an entry the service should return.
  - `aspectTypes` - Limits the aspects returned to the provided aspect types. It only works for CUSTOM view.
  - `paths` - Limits the aspects returned to those associated with the provided paths within the Entry. It only works for CUSTOM view.

## Requirements

### IAM Permissions

Dataplex uses [Identity and Access Management (IAM)][iam-overview] to control
user and group access to Dataplex resources. Toolbox will use your 
[Application Default Credentials (ADC)][adc] to authorize and authenticate when 
interacting with [Dataplex][dataplex-docs].

In addition to [setting the ADC for your server][set-adc], you need to ensure
the IAM identity has been given the correct IAM permissions for the tasks you
intend to perform. See [Dataplex Universal Catalog IAM permissions][iam-permissions] 
and [Dataplex Universal Catalog IAM roles][iam-roles] for more information on
applying IAM permissions and roles to an identity.

[iam-overview]: https://cloud.google.com/dataplex/docs/iam-and-access-control
[adc]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication#adc
[set-adc]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/provide-credentials-adc
[iam-permissions]: https://cloud.google.com/dataplex/docs/iam-permissions
[iam-roles]: https://cloud.google.com/dataplex/docs/iam-roles

## Example

```yaml
tools:
  lookup_entry:
    kind: dataplex-lookup-entry
    source: my-dataplex-source
    description: Use this tool to retrieve a specific entry in Dataplex Catalog.
```

## Reference

| **field**   |                  **type**                  | **required** | **description**                                                                                  |
|-------------|:------------------------------------------:|:------------:|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| kind        |                   string                   |     true     | Must be "dataplex-lookup-entry".                                                                 |
| source      |                   string                   |     true     | Name of the source the tool should execute on.                                                   |
| description |                   string                   |     true     | Description of the tool that is passed to the LLM.                                               |

Commit message:

Add arg format and allowed values

docs/en/resources/tools/dataplex/dataplex-lookup-entry.md, after:

---
title: "dataplex-lookup-entry"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: > 
  A "dataplex-lookup-entry" tool returns details of a particular entry in Dataplex Catalog.
aliases:
- /resources/tools/dataplex-lookup-entry
---

## About

A `dataplex-lookup-entry` tool returns details of a particular entry in Dataplex Catalog.
It's compatible with the following sources:

- [dataplex](../sources/dataplex.md)

`dataplex-lookup-entry` takes a required `name` parameter which contains the project and location to which the request should be attributed in the following form: projects/{project}/locations/{location} and also a required `entry` parameter which is the resource name of the entry in the following form: projects/{project}/locations/{location}/entryGroups/{entryGroup}/entries/{entry}. It also optionally accepts following parameters:
  - `view` - View to control which parts of an entry the service should return. It takes integer values from 1-4 corresponding to type of view - BASIC, FULL, CUSTOM, ALL
  - `aspectTypes` - Limits the aspects returned to the provided aspect types in the format `projects/{project}/locations/{location}/aspectTypes/{aspectType}`. It only works for CUSTOM view.
  - `paths` - Limits the aspects returned to those associated with the provided paths within the Entry. It only works for CUSTOM view.

## Requirements

### IAM Permissions

Dataplex uses [Identity and Access Management (IAM)][iam-overview] to control
user and group access to Dataplex resources. Toolbox will use your 
[Application Default Credentials (ADC)][adc] to authorize and authenticate when 
interacting with [Dataplex][dataplex-docs].

In addition to [setting the ADC for your server][set-adc], you need to ensure
the IAM identity has been given the correct IAM permissions for the tasks you
intend to perform. See [Dataplex Universal Catalog IAM permissions][iam-permissions] 
and [Dataplex Universal Catalog IAM roles][iam-roles] for more information on
applying IAM permissions and roles to an identity.

[iam-overview]: https://cloud.google.com/dataplex/docs/iam-and-access-control
[adc]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication#adc
[set-adc]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/provide-credentials-adc
[iam-permissions]: https://cloud.google.com/dataplex/docs/iam-permissions
[iam-roles]: https://cloud.google.com/dataplex/docs/iam-roles

## Example

```yaml
tools:
  lookup_entry:
    kind: dataplex-lookup-entry
    source: my-dataplex-source
    description: Use this tool to retrieve a specific entry in Dataplex Catalog.
```

## Reference

| **field**   |                  **type**                  | **required** | **description**                                                                                  |
|-------------|:------------------------------------------:|:------------:|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| kind        |                   string                   |     true     | Must be "dataplex-lookup-entry".                                                                 |
| source      |                   string                   |     true     | Name of the source the tool should execute on.                                                   |
| description |                   string                   |     true     | Description of the tool that is passed to the LLM.                                               |
