docs/en/resources/sources/cloud-sql-mysql.md, before:

---
title: "Cloud SQL for MySQL"
linkTitle: "Cloud SQL (MySQL)"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: >
  Cloud SQL for MySQL is a fully-managed database service for MySQL.

---

## About

[Cloud SQL for MySQL][csql-mysql-docs] is a fully-managed database service
that helps you set up, maintain, manage, and administer your MySQL
relational databases on Google Cloud Platform.

If you are new to Cloud SQL for MySQL, you can try [creating and connecting
to a database by following these instructions][csql-mysql-quickstart].

[csql-mysql-docs]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql
[csql-mysql-quickstart]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/connect-instance-local-computer

## Available Tools

- [`mysql-sql`](../tools/mysql/mysql-sql.md)  
  Execute pre-defined prepared SQL queries in MySQL.

- [`mysql-execute-sql`](../tools/mysql/mysql-execute-sql.md)  
  Run parameterized SQL queries in Cloud SQL for MySQL.

### Pre-built Configurations

- [Cloud SQL for MySQL using MCP](https://googleapis.github.io/genai-toolbox/how-to/connect-ide/cloud_sql_mysql_mcp/)  
Connect your IDE to Cloud SQL for MySQL using Toolbox.

## Requirements

### IAM Permissions

By default, this source uses the [Cloud SQL Go Connector][csql-go-conn] to
authorize and establish mTLS connections to your Cloud SQL instance. The Go
connector uses your [Application Default Credentials (ADC)][adc] to authorize
your connection to Cloud SQL.

In addition to [setting the ADC for your server][set-adc], you need to ensure
the IAM identity has been given the following IAM roles (or corresponding
permissions):

- `roles/cloudsql.client`

{{< notice tip >}}
If you are connecting from Compute Engine, make sure your VM
also has the [proper
scope](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/service-accounts#accesscopesiam)
to connect using the Cloud SQL Admin API.
{{< /notice >}}

[csql-go-conn]: https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-sql-go-connector
[adc]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication#adc
[set-adc]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/provide-credentials-adc

### Networking

Cloud SQL supports connecting over both from external networks via the internet
([public IP][public-ip]), and internal networks ([private IP][private-ip]).
For more information on choosing between the two options, see the Cloud SQL page
[Connection overview][conn-overview].

You can configure the `ipType` parameter in your source configuration to
`public` or `private` to match your cluster's configuration. Regardless of which
you choose, all connections use IAM-based authorization and are encrypted with
mTLS.

[private-ip]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/configure-private-ip
[public-ip]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/configure-ip
[conn-overview]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/connect-overview

### Database User

Currently, this source only uses standard authentication. You will need to [create
a MySQL user][cloud-sql-users] to login to the database with.

[cloud-sql-users]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/create-manage-users

## Example

```yaml
sources:
    my-cloud-sql-mysql-source:
        kind: cloud-sql-mysql
        project: my-project-id
        region: us-central1
        instance: my-instance
        database: my_db
        user: ${USER_NAME}
        password: ${PASSWORD}
        # ipType: "private"
```

{{< notice tip >}}
Use environment variable replacement with the format ${ENV_NAME}
instead of hardcoding your secrets into the configuration file.
{{< /notice >}}

## Reference

| **field** | **type** | **required** | **description**                                                                             |
|-----------|:--------:|:------------:|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| kind      |  string  |     true     | Must be "cloud-sql-mysql".                                                                  |
| project   |  string  |     true     | Id of the GCP project that the cluster was created in (e.g. "my-project-id").               |
| region    |  string  |     true     | Name of the GCP region that the cluster was created in (e.g. "us-central1").                |
| instance  |  string  |     true     | Name of the Cloud SQL instance within the cluster (e.g. "my-instance").                     |
| database  |  string  |     true     | Name of the MySQL database to connect to (e.g. "my_db").                                    |
| user      |  string  |     true     | Name of the MySQL user to connect as (e.g. "my-pg-user").                                   |
| password  |  string  |     true     | Password of the MySQL user (e.g. "my-password").                                            |
| ipType    |  string  |    false     | IP Type of the Cloud SQL instance; must be one of `public` or `private`. Default: `public`. |

Commit message:

feat(tools/mysql-list-tables): Add new tool for mysql (#1287)
## Description
---
This pull request introduces a new custom tool kind `mysql-list-tables`
that allows users to list tables within a MySQL database.

### Example Configuration

```yaml
tools:
  mysql_list_tables:
    kind: mysql-list-tables
    source: mysql-source
    description: Use this tool to retrieve schema information for all or specified tables. Output format can be simple (only table names) or detailed.
```

### Example Request
``` 
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/tool/mysql_list_tables/invoke \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "table_names": "users",
    "output_format": "simple"
}'
```

## PR Checklist
---
> Thank you for opening a Pull Request! Before submitting your PR, there
are a
> few things you can do to make sure it goes smoothly:
- [x] Make sure you reviewed

[CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/googleapis/genai-toolbox/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [ ] Make sure to open an issue as a

[bug/issue](https://github.com/googleapis/langchain-google-alloydb-pg-python/issues/new/choose)
before writing your code! That way we can discuss the change, evaluate
  designs, and agree on the general idea
- [x] Ensure the tests and linter pass
- [x] Code coverage does not decrease (if any source code was changed)
- [x] Appropriate docs were updated (if necessary)
- [x] Make sure to add `!` if this involve a breaking change

---------

Co-authored-by: Averi Kitsch <akitsch@google.com>

docs/en/resources/sources/cloud-sql-mysql.md, after:

---
title: "Cloud SQL for MySQL"
linkTitle: "Cloud SQL (MySQL)"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: >
  Cloud SQL for MySQL is a fully-managed database service for MySQL.

---

## About

[Cloud SQL for MySQL][csql-mysql-docs] is a fully-managed database service
that helps you set up, maintain, manage, and administer your MySQL
relational databases on Google Cloud Platform.

If you are new to Cloud SQL for MySQL, you can try [creating and connecting
to a database by following these instructions][csql-mysql-quickstart].

[csql-mysql-docs]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql
[csql-mysql-quickstart]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/connect-instance-local-computer

## Available Tools

- [`mysql-sql`](../tools/mysql/mysql-sql.md)  
  Execute pre-defined prepared SQL queries in MySQL.

- [`mysql-execute-sql`](../tools/mysql/mysql-execute-sql.md)  
  Run parameterized SQL queries in Cloud SQL for MySQL.

- [`mysql-list-tables`](../tools/mysql/mysql-list-tables.md)  
  List tables in a Cloud SQL for MySQL database.

### Pre-built Configurations

- [Cloud SQL for MySQL using MCP](https://googleapis.github.io/genai-toolbox/how-to/connect-ide/cloud_sql_mysql_mcp/)  
Connect your IDE to Cloud SQL for MySQL using Toolbox.

## Requirements

### IAM Permissions

By default, this source uses the [Cloud SQL Go Connector][csql-go-conn] to
authorize and establish mTLS connections to your Cloud SQL instance. The Go
connector uses your [Application Default Credentials (ADC)][adc] to authorize
your connection to Cloud SQL.

In addition to [setting the ADC for your server][set-adc], you need to ensure
the IAM identity has been given the following IAM roles (or corresponding
permissions):

- `roles/cloudsql.client`

{{< notice tip >}}
If you are connecting from Compute Engine, make sure your VM
also has the [proper
scope](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/service-accounts#accesscopesiam)
to connect using the Cloud SQL Admin API.
{{< /notice >}}

[csql-go-conn]: https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-sql-go-connector
[adc]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication#adc
[set-adc]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/provide-credentials-adc

### Networking

Cloud SQL supports connecting over both from external networks via the internet
([public IP][public-ip]), and internal networks ([private IP][private-ip]).
For more information on choosing between the two options, see the Cloud SQL page
[Connection overview][conn-overview].

You can configure the `ipType` parameter in your source configuration to
`public` or `private` to match your cluster's configuration. Regardless of which
you choose, all connections use IAM-based authorization and are encrypted with
mTLS.

[private-ip]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/configure-private-ip
[public-ip]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/configure-ip
[conn-overview]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/connect-overview

### Database User

Currently, this source only uses standard authentication. You will need to [create
a MySQL user][cloud-sql-users] to login to the database with.

[cloud-sql-users]: https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/create-manage-users

## Example

```yaml
sources:
    my-cloud-sql-mysql-source:
        kind: cloud-sql-mysql
        project: my-project-id
        region: us-central1
        instance: my-instance
        database: my_db
        user: ${USER_NAME}
        password: ${PASSWORD}
        # ipType: "private"
```

{{< notice tip >}}
Use environment variable replacement with the format ${ENV_NAME}
instead of hardcoding your secrets into the configuration file.
{{< /notice >}}

## Reference

| **field** | **type** | **required** | **description**                                                                             |
|-----------|:--------:|:------------:|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| kind      |  string  |     true     | Must be "cloud-sql-mysql".                                                                  |
| project   |  string  |     true     | Id of the GCP project that the cluster was created in (e.g. "my-project-id").               |
| region    |  string  |     true     | Name of the GCP region that the cluster was created in (e.g. "us-central1").                |
| instance  |  string  |     true     | Name of the Cloud SQL instance within the cluster (e.g. "my-instance").                     |
| database  |  string  |     true     | Name of the MySQL database to connect to (e.g. "my_db").                                    |
| user      |  string  |     true     | Name of the MySQL user to connect as (e.g. "my-pg-user").                                   |
| password  |  string  |     true     | Password of the MySQL user (e.g. "my-password").                                            |
| ipType    |  string  |    false     | IP Type of the Cloud SQL instance; must be one of `public` or `private`. Default: `public`. |
