docs/en/resources/sources/couchbase.md, before:

---
title: "couchbase"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: > 
  A "couchbase" source connects to a Couchbase database.
---

## About

A `couchbase` source establishes a connection to a Couchbase database cluster,
allowing tools to execute SQL queries against it.

## Available Tools

- [`couchbase-sql`](../tools/couchbase/couchbase-sql.md)  
  Run SQL++ statements on Couchbase with parameterized input.

## Example

```yaml
sources:
    my-couchbase-instance:
        kind: couchbase
        connectionString: couchbase://localhost
        bucket: travel-sample
        scope: inventory
        username: Administrator
        password: password
```

## Reference

| **field**            | **type** | **required** | **description**                                         |
|----------------------|:--------:|:------------:|---------------------------------------------------------|
| kind                 | string   |    true      | Must be "couchbase".                                    |
| connectionString     | string   |    true      | Connection string for the Couchbase cluster.            |
| bucket               | string   |    true      | Name of the bucket to connect to.                       |
| scope                | string   |    true      | Name of the scope within the bucket.                    |
| username             | string   |    false     | Username for authentication.                            |
| password             | string   |    false     | Password for authentication.                            |
| clientCert           | string   |    false     | Path to client certificate file for TLS authentication. |
| clientCertPassword   | string   |    false     | Password for the client certificate.                    |
| clientKey            | string   |    false     | Path to client key file for TLS authentication.         |
| clientKeyPassword    | string   |    false     | Password for the client key.                            |
| caCert               | string   |    false     | Path to CA certificate file.                            |
| noSslVerify          | boolean  |    false     | If true, skip server certificate verification. **Warning:** This option should only be used in development or testing environments. Disabling SSL verification poses significant security risks in production as it makes your connection vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. |
| profile              | string   |    false     | Name of the connection profile to apply.                |
| queryScanConsistency | integer  |    false     | Query scan consistency. Controls the consistency guarantee for index scanning. Values: 1 for "not_bounded" (fastest option, but results may not include the most recent operations), 2 for "request_plus" (highest consistency level, includes all operations up until the query started, but incurs a performance penalty). If not specified, defaults to the Couchbase Go SDK default. |

Commit message:

docs: added note for custom ports

docs/en/resources/sources/couchbase.md, after:

---
title: "couchbase"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: > 
  A "couchbase" source connects to a Couchbase database.
---

## About

A `couchbase` source establishes a connection to a Couchbase database cluster,
allowing tools to execute SQL queries against it.

## Available Tools

- [`couchbase-sql`](../tools/couchbase/couchbase-sql.md)  
  Run SQL++ statements on Couchbase with parameterized input.

## Example
{{< notice note >}}
For more details about custom ports refer to this link [`custom ports`](https://docs.couchbase.com/java-sdk/current/howtos/managing-connections.html)
{{< /notice >}}

```yaml
sources:
    my-couchbase-instance:
        kind: couchbase
        connectionString: couchbase://localhost
        bucket: travel-sample
        scope: inventory
        username: Administrator
        password: password
```

## Reference

| **field**            | **type** | **required** | **description**                                         |
|----------------------|:--------:|:------------:|---------------------------------------------------------|
| kind                 | string   |    true      | Must be "couchbase".                                    |
| connectionString     | string   |    true      | Connection string for the Couchbase cluster.            |
| bucket               | string   |    true      | Name of the bucket to connect to.                       |
| scope                | string   |    true      | Name of the scope within the bucket.                    |
| username             | string   |    false     | Username for authentication.                            |
| password             | string   |    false     | Password for authentication.                            |
| clientCert           | string   |    false     | Path to client certificate file for TLS authentication. |
| clientCertPassword   | string   |    false     | Password for the client certificate.                    |
| clientKey            | string   |    false     | Path to client key file for TLS authentication.         |
| clientKeyPassword    | string   |    false     | Password for the client key.                            |
| caCert               | string   |    false     | Path to CA certificate file.                            |
| noSslVerify          | boolean  |    false     | If true, skip server certificate verification. **Warning:** This option should only be used in development or testing environments. Disabling SSL verification poses significant security risks in production as it makes your connection vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. |
| profile              | string   |    false     | Name of the connection profile to apply.                |
| queryScanConsistency | integer  |    false     | Query scan consistency. Controls the consistency guarantee for index scanning. Values: 1 for "not_bounded" (fastest option, but results may not include the most recent operations), 2 for "request_plus" (highest consistency level, includes all operations up until the query started, but incurs a performance penalty). If not specified, defaults to the Couchbase Go SDK default. |
