docs/en/resources/sources/mariadb.md, before:

---
title: "MariaDB"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: >
  MariaDB is an open-source relational database compatible with MySQL.

---
## About

MariaDB is a relational database management system derived from MySQL. It
implements the MySQL protocol and client libraries and supports modern SQL
features with a focus on performance and reliability.

## Available Tools

- [`mysql-sql`](../tools/mysql/mysql-sql.md)
  Execute pre-defined prepared SQL queries in MariaDB.

- [`mysql-execute-sql`](../tools/mysql/mysql-execute-sql.md)
  Run parameterized SQL queries in MariaDB.

- [`mysql-list-active-queries`](../tools/mysql/mysql-list-active-queries.md)
  List active queries in MariaDB.

- [`mysql-list-tables`](../tools/mysql/mysql-list-tables.md)
  List tables in a MariaDB database.

- [`mysql-list-tables-missing-unique-indexes`](../tools/mysql/mysql-list-tables-missing-unique-indexes.md)
  List tables in a MariaDB database that do not have primary or unique indices.

- [`mysql-list-table-fragmentation`](../tools/mysql/mysql-list-table-fragmentation.md)
  List table fragmentation in MariaDB tables.

## Requirements

### Database User

This source only uses standard authentication. You will need to [create a
MariaDB user][mariadb-users] to log in to the database.

[mariadb-users]: https://mariadb.com/kb/en/create-user/

## Example
```yaml
sources:
  my_mariadb_db:
    kind: mariadb
    host: "127.0.0.1"
    port: "3306"
    database: "example"
    user: ${MARIADB_USER}
    password: ${MARIADB_PASS}
    queryParams:
      interpolateParams: "true"
```

{{< notice tip >}}
Use environment variables instead of committing credentials to source files.
{{< /notice >}}

## Reference

| field       |  type  | required | description                                    |
| ----------- | :----: | :------: | ---------------------------------------------- |
| kind        | string |   true   | Must be `mariadb`.                             |
| host        | string |   true   | Hostname or IP of the MariaDB server.          |
| port        | string |   true   | Port to connect to (typically `3306`).         |
| database    | string |   true   | Database name to connect to.                   |
| user        | string |   true   | Username used for authentication.              |
| password    | string |   true   | Password for the specified user.               |
| queryParams |   map  |   false  | Optional URL query params appended to the DSN. |

Commit message:

chore: remove mariadb source, updated docs, tools and integration test

docs/en/resources/sources/mariadb.md, after:

---
title: "MariaDB"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: >
  MariaDB is an open-source relational database compatible with MySQL.

---
## About

MariaDB is a relational database management system derived from MySQL. It
implements the MySQL protocol and client libraries and supports modern SQL
features with a focus on performance and reliability.

**Note**: MariaDB is supported using the MySQL source.
## Available Tools

- [`mysql-sql`](../tools/mysql/mysql-sql.md)
  Execute pre-defined prepared SQL queries in MariaDB.

- [`mysql-execute-sql`](../tools/mysql/mysql-execute-sql.md)
  Run parameterized SQL queries in MariaDB.

- [`mysql-list-active-queries`](../tools/mysql/mysql-list-active-queries.md)
  List active queries in MariaDB.

- [`mysql-list-tables`](../tools/mysql/mysql-list-tables.md)
  List tables in a MariaDB database.

- [`mysql-list-tables-missing-unique-indexes`](../tools/mysql/mysql-list-tables-missing-unique-indexes.md)
  List tables in a MariaDB database that do not have primary or unique indices.

- [`mysql-list-table-fragmentation`](../tools/mysql/mysql-list-table-fragmentation.md)
  List table fragmentation in MariaDB tables.

## Requirements

### Database User

This source only uses standard authentication. You will need to [create a
MariaDB user][mariadb-users] to log in to the database.

[mariadb-users]: https://mariadb.com/kb/en/create-user/

## Example

```yaml
sources:
    my_mariadb_db:
        kind: mysql
        host: 127.0.0.1
        port: 3306
        database: my_db
        user: ${MARIADB_USER}
        password: ${MARIADB_PASS}
        # Optional TLS and other driver parameters. For example, enable preferred TLS:
        # queryParams:
        #     tls: preferred
        queryTimeout: 30s # Optional: query timeout duration
```

{{< notice tip >}}
Use environment variables instead of committing credentials to source files.
{{< /notice >}}


## Reference

| **field**    | **type** | **required** | **description**                                                                                 |
| ------------ | :------: | :----------: | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| kind         |  string  |     true     | Must be `mysql`.                                                                                |
| host         |  string  |     true     | IP address to connect to (e.g. "127.0.0.1").                                                    |
| port         |  string  |     true     | Port to connect to (e.g. "3307").                                                               |
| database     |  string  |     true     | Name of the MariaDB database to connect to (e.g. "my_db").                                        |
| user         |  string  |     true     | Name of the MariaDB user to connect as (e.g. "my-mysql-user").                                    |
| password     |  string  |     true     | Password of the MariaDB user (e.g. "my-password").                                                |
| queryTimeout |  string  |    false     | Maximum time to wait for query execution (e.g. "30s", "2m"). By default, no timeout is applied. |
| queryParams | map<string,string> | false | Arbitrary DSN parameters passed to the driver (e.g. `tls: preferred`, `charset: utf8mb4`). Useful for enabling TLS or other connection options. |
