docs/en/resources/tools/looker/looker-get-connection-databases.md, before:

---
title: "looker-get-connection-databases"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: >
  A "looker-get-connection-databases" tool returns all the databases in a connection.
aliases:
- /resources/tools/looker-get-connection-databases
---

## About

A `looker-get-connection-databases` tool returns all the databases in a connection.

It's compatible with the following sources:

- [looker](../../sources/looker.md)

`looker-get-connection-databases` accepts a `conn` parameter.

## Example

```yaml
tools:
    get_connection_databases:
        kind: looker-get-connection-databases
        source: looker-source
        description: |
          get_connection_databases Tool

          This tool will list the databases available from a connection if the connection
          supports multiple databases.
```

## Reference

| **field**   | **type** | **required** | **description**                                    |
|-------------|:--------:|:------------:|----------------------------------------------------|
| kind        |  string  |     true     | Must be "looker-get-connection-databases".         |
| source      |  string  |     true     | Name of the source Looker instance.                |
| description |  string  |     true     | Description of the tool that is passed to the LLM. |

Commit message:

fix: prompt engineering for all looker tools

docs/en/resources/tools/looker/looker-get-connection-databases.md, after:

---
title: "looker-get-connection-databases"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: >
  A "looker-get-connection-databases" tool returns all the databases in a connection.
aliases:
- /resources/tools/looker-get-connection-databases
---

## About

A `looker-get-connection-databases` tool returns all the databases in a connection.

It's compatible with the following sources:

- [looker](../../sources/looker.md)

`looker-get-connection-databases` accepts a `conn` parameter.

## Example

```yaml
tools:
    get_connection_databases:
        kind: looker-get-connection-databases
        source: looker-source
        description: |
          get_connection_databases Tool

          This tool retrieves a list of databases available through a specified Looker connection.
          This is only applicable for connections that support multiple databases.
          Use `get_connections` to check if a connection supports multiple databases.

          Parameters:
          - connection_name (required): The name of the database connection, obtained from `get_connections`.

          Output:
          A JSON array of strings, where each string is the name of an available database.
          If the connection does not support multiple databases, an empty list or an error will be returned.
```

## Reference

| **field**   | **type** | **required** | **description**                                    |
|-------------|:--------:|:------------:|----------------------------------------------------|
| kind        |  string  |     true     | Must be "looker-get-connection-databases".         |
| source      |  string  |     true     | Name of the source Looker instance.                |
| description |  string  |     true     | Description of the tool that is passed to the LLM. |
