docs/en/resources/tools/neo4j/neo4j-db-schema.md, before:

---
title: "neo4j-db-schema"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: > 
  A "neo4j-db-schema" tool extracts a comprehensive schema from a Neo4j
  database.
aliases:
- /resources/tools/neo4j-db-schema
---

## About

A `neo4j-db-schema` tool connects to a Neo4j database and extracts its complete schema information. It runs multiple queries concurrently to efficiently gather details about node labels, relationships, properties, constraints, and indexes. This includes using procedures like `apoc.meta.schema` to get a detailed overview of the database structure.

This tool takes no parameters and is compatible with any of the following sources:

- [neo4j](../sources/neo4j.md)

The output is a structured JSON object containing all the schema details, which can be invaluable for providing database context to an LLM.

## Example

```yaml
tools:
  get_movie_db_schema:
    kind: neo4j-db-schema
    source: my-neo4j-movies-instance
    description: |
      Use this tool to get the full schema of the movie database.
      This provides information on all available node labels (like Movie, Person), 
      relationships (like ACTED_IN), and the properties on each.
      This tool takes no parameters.
```

## Reference
| **field**     |                  **type**                  | **required** | **description**                                                                                 |
|---------------|:------------------------------------------:|:------------:|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| kind          |                   string                   |     true     | Must be "neo4j-db-schema".                                                                      |
| source        |                   string                   |     true     | Name of the source the schema should be extracted from.                                         |
| description   |                   string                   |     true     | Description of the tool that is passed to the LLM.                                              |

Commit message:

updated documentation for neo4j-cypher.md and neo4j-db-schema.md

docs/en/resources/tools/neo4j/neo4j-db-schema.md, after:

---
title: "neo4j-db-schema"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: > 
  A "neo4j-db-schema" tool extracts a comprehensive schema from a Neo4j
  database.
aliases:
- /resources/tools/neo4j-db-schema
---

## About

A `neo4j-db-schema` tool connects to a Neo4j database and extracts its complete schema information. It runs multiple queries concurrently to efficiently gather details about node labels, relationships, properties, constraints, and indexes. This includes using procedures like `apoc.meta.schema` to get a detailed overview of the database structure. The tool can also operate without APOC procedures by using native Cypher queries.

The extracted schema is cached to improve performance for subsequent requests. You can configure which parts of the schema are extracted to tailor the output to your needs.
This tool takes no parameters and is compatible with any of the following sources:

- [neo4j](../sources/neo4j.md)

The output is a structured JSON object containing all the schema details, which can be invaluable for providing database context to an LLM.

## Example

```yaml
tools:
  get_movie_db_schema:
    kind: neo4j-db-schema
    source: my-neo4j-movies-instance
    description: |
      Use this tool to get the full schema of the movie database.
      This provides information on all available node labels (like Movie, Person), 
      relationships (like ACTED_IN), and the properties on each.
      This tool takes no parameters.
    # Optional configuration to disable APOC and cache for 2 hours
    disableAPOCUsage: true
    cacheExpireMinutes: 120
```

## Reference
| **field**           | **type**   | **required** | **description**                                                                                 |
|---------------------|:----------:|:------------:|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| kind                | string     |     true     | Must be `neo4j-db-schema`.                                                                      |
| source              | string     |     true     | Name of the source the schema should be extracted from.                                         |
| description         | string     |     true     | Description of the tool that is passed to the LLM.                                              |
| cacheExpireMinutes  | integer    |    false     | Cache expiration time in minutes. Defaults to 60.                                               |
| disableDbInfo       | boolean    |    false     | If true, skips extracting database info (like version, edition).                                |
| disableErrors       | boolean    |    false     | If true, skips collecting errors during schema extraction.                                      |
| disableIndexes      | boolean    |    false     | If true, skips extracting indexes.                                                              |
| disableConstraints  | boolean    |    false     | If true, skips extracting constraints.                                                          |
| disableAPOCUsage    | boolean    |    false     | If true, uses native Cypher queries instead of APOC procedures for schema extraction.           |
