docs/en/how-to/connect_via_mcp.md, before:

---
title: "Connect via MCP Client"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: >
  How to connect to Toolbox from a MCP Client.
---

## Toolbox SDKs vs Model Context Protocol (MCP)
Toolbox now supports connections via both the native Toolbox SDKs and via [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/). However, Toolbox has several features which are not supported in the MCP specification (such as Authenticated Parameters and Authorized invocation). 

We recommend using the native SDKs over MCP clients to leverage these features. The native SDKs can be combined with MCP clients in many cases. 

### Protocol Versions
Toolbox currently supports the following versions of MCP specification:
* [2024-11-05](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/)

### Features Not Supported by MCP
Toolbox has several features that are not yet supported in the MCP specification:
* **AuthZ/AuthN:** There are no auth implementation in the `2024-11-05` specification. This includes:
  * [Authenticated Parameters](../resources/tools/_index.md#authenticated-parameters)
  * [Authorized Invocations](../resources/tools/_index.md#authorized-invocations)
* **Notifications:** Currently, editing Toolbox Tools requires a server restart. Clients should reload tools on disconnect to get the latest version. 


## Connecting to Toolbox with an MCP client
### Before you begin

{{< notice note >}} 
MCP is only compatible with Toolbox version 0.3.0 and above.
{{< /notice >}}

1. [Install](../getting-started/introduction/_index.md#installing-the-server) Toolbox version 0.3.0+.

1. Make sure you've set up and initialized your database.

1. [Set up](../getting-started/configure.md) your `tools.yaml` file.

### Connecting via Standard Input/Output (stdio)
Toolbox supports the
[stdio](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/transports#standard-input%2Foutput-stdio)
transport protocol. Users that wish to use stdio will have to include the
`--stdio` flag when running Toolbox.

```bash
./toolbox --stdio
```

When running with stdio, Toolbox will listen via stdio instead of acting as a
remote HTTP server. Logs will be set to the `warn` level by default. `debug` and `info` logs are not
supported with stdio.

### Connecting via HTTP
Toolbox supports the HTTP transport protocol with and without SSE.

{{< tabpane text=true >}} {{% tab header="HTTP with SSE" lang="en" %}}
Add the following configuration to your MCP client configuration:
```bash
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "toolbox": {
      "type": "sse",
      "url": "http://127.0.0.1:5000/mcp/sse",
    }
  }
}
```

If you would like to connect to a specific toolset, replace `url` with `"http://127.0.0.1:5000/mcp/{toolset_name}/sse"`.
{{% /tab %}} {{% tab header="HTTP POST" lang="en" %}}
Connect to Toolbox HTTP POST via `http://127.0.0.1:5000/mcp`.

If you would like to connect to a specific toolset, connect via `http://127.0.0.1:5000/mcp/{toolset_name}`.
{{% /tab %}} {{< /tabpane >}}

### Using the MCP Inspector with Toolbox

Use MCP [Inspector](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/inspector) for
testing and debugging Toolbox server.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab header="STDIO" lang="en" %}}
1. Run Inspector with Toolbox as a subprocess:

   ```bash
   npx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector ./toolbox --stdio
   ```

1. For `Transport Type` dropdown menu, select `STDIO`.

1. In `Command`, make sure that it is set to :`./toolbox` (or the correct path to where the Toolbox binary is installed).

1. In `Arguments`, make sure that it's filled with `--stdio`.

1. Click the `Connect` button. It might take awhile to spin up Toolbox. Voila!
   You should be able to inspect your toolbox tools!
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab header="HTTP with SSE" lang="en" %}}
1. [Run Toolbox](../getting-started/introduction/_index.md#running-the-server).

1. In a separate terminal, run Inspector directly through `npx`:

    ```bash
    npx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector
    ```

1. For `Transport Type` dropdown menu, select `SSE`.

1. For `URL`, type in `http://127.0.0.1:5000/mcp/sse` to use all tool or
   `http//127.0.0.1:5000/mcp/{toolset_name}/sse` to use a specific toolset.

1. Click the `Connect` button. Voila! You should be able to inspect your toolbox
   tools!
{{% /tab %}} {{< /tabpane >}}

### Tested Clients

| Client | SSE Works | MCP Config Docs |
|--------|--------|--------|
| Claude Desktop | ✅ | https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user#1-download-claude-for-desktop | 
| MCP Inspector | ✅ | https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/inspector |
| Cursor | ✅ | https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol |
| Windsurf | ✅ | https://docs.windsurf.com/windsurf/mcp | 
| VS Code (Insiders) | ✅ | https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers |

Commit message:

feat: add disable-reload flag and update docs

docs/en/how-to/connect_via_mcp.md, after:

---
title: "Connect via MCP Client"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: >
  How to connect to Toolbox from a MCP Client.
---

## Toolbox SDKs vs Model Context Protocol (MCP)
Toolbox now supports connections via both the native Toolbox SDKs and via [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/). However, Toolbox has several features which are not supported in the MCP specification (such as Authenticated Parameters and Authorized invocation). 

We recommend using the native SDKs over MCP clients to leverage these features. The native SDKs can be combined with MCP clients in many cases. 

### Protocol Versions
Toolbox currently supports the following versions of MCP specification:
* [2024-11-05](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/)

### Features Not Supported by MCP
Toolbox has several features that are not yet supported in the MCP specification:
* **AuthZ/AuthN:** There are no auth implementation in the `2024-11-05` specification. This includes:
  * [Authenticated Parameters](../resources/tools/_index.md#authenticated-parameters)
  * [Authorized Invocations](../resources/tools/_index.md#authorized-invocations)
* **Notifications:** Currently, editing Toolbox Tools requires a server restart. Clients should reload tools on disconnect to get the latest version. 


## Connecting to Toolbox with an MCP client
### Before you begin

{{< notice note >}} 
MCP is only compatible with Toolbox version 0.3.0 and above.
{{< /notice >}}

1. [Install](../getting-started/introduction/_index.md#installing-the-server) Toolbox version 0.3.0+.

1. Make sure you've set up and initialized your database.

1. [Set up](../getting-started/configure.md) your `tools.yaml` file.

### Connecting via Standard Input/Output (stdio)
Toolbox supports the
[stdio](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/transports#standard-input%2Foutput-stdio)
transport protocol. Users that wish to use stdio will have to include the
`--stdio` flag when running Toolbox.

```bash
./toolbox --stdio
```

When running with stdio, Toolbox will listen via stdio instead of acting as a
remote HTTP server. Logs will be set to the `warn` level by default. `debug` and `info` logs are not
supported with stdio.

Toolbox also supports dynamic reloading of the tools configuration file, which
is enabled by default. To disable this, please run with the `--disable-reload`
flag.

```sh
./toolbox --disable-reload
```

### Connecting via HTTP
Toolbox supports the HTTP transport protocol with and without SSE.

{{< tabpane text=true >}} {{% tab header="HTTP with SSE" lang="en" %}}
Add the following configuration to your MCP client configuration:
```bash
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "toolbox": {
      "type": "sse",
      "url": "http://127.0.0.1:5000/mcp/sse",
    }
  }
}
```

If you would like to connect to a specific toolset, replace `url` with `"http://127.0.0.1:5000/mcp/{toolset_name}/sse"`.
{{% /tab %}} {{% tab header="HTTP POST" lang="en" %}}
Connect to Toolbox HTTP POST via `http://127.0.0.1:5000/mcp`.

If you would like to connect to a specific toolset, connect via `http://127.0.0.1:5000/mcp/{toolset_name}`.
{{% /tab %}} {{< /tabpane >}}

### Using the MCP Inspector with Toolbox

Use MCP [Inspector](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/inspector) for
testing and debugging Toolbox server.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab header="STDIO" lang="en" %}}
1. Run Inspector with Toolbox as a subprocess:

   ```bash
   npx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector ./toolbox --stdio
   ```

1. For `Transport Type` dropdown menu, select `STDIO`.

1. In `Command`, make sure that it is set to :`./toolbox` (or the correct path to where the Toolbox binary is installed).

1. In `Arguments`, make sure that it's filled with `--stdio`.

1. Click the `Connect` button. It might take awhile to spin up Toolbox. Voila!
   You should be able to inspect your toolbox tools!
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab header="HTTP with SSE" lang="en" %}}
1. [Run Toolbox](../getting-started/introduction/_index.md#running-the-server).

1. In a separate terminal, run Inspector directly through `npx`:

    ```bash
    npx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector
    ```

1. For `Transport Type` dropdown menu, select `SSE`.

1. For `URL`, type in `http://127.0.0.1:5000/mcp/sse` to use all tool or
   `http//127.0.0.1:5000/mcp/{toolset_name}/sse` to use a specific toolset.

1. Click the `Connect` button. Voila! You should be able to inspect your toolbox
   tools!
{{% /tab %}} {{< /tabpane >}}

### Tested Clients

| Client | SSE Works | MCP Config Docs |
|--------|--------|--------|
| Claude Desktop | ✅ | https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user#1-download-claude-for-desktop | 
| MCP Inspector | ✅ | https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/inspector |
| Cursor | ✅ | https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol |
| Windsurf | ✅ | https://docs.windsurf.com/windsurf/mcp | 
| VS Code (Insiders) | ✅ | https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers |
