docs/en/how-to/export_telemetry.md, before:

---
title: "Export Telemetry"
type: docs
weight: 5
description: >
  How to set up and configure Toolbox to use the Otel Collector.
---


## About

The [OpenTelemetry Collector][about-collector] offers a vendor-agnostic
implementation of how to receive, process and export telemetry data. It removes
the need to run, operate, and maintain multiple agents/collectors.

[about-collector]: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/

## Configure the Collector

To configure the collector, you will have to provide a configuration file. The
configuration file consists of four classes of pipeline component that access
telemetry data.

- `Receivers`
- `Processors`
- `Exporters`
- `Connectors`

Example of setting up the classes of pipeline components (in this example, we
don't use connectors):

```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      http:
        endpoint: "127.0.0.1:4553"

exporters:
  googlecloud:
    project: <YOUR_GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT>

processors:
  batch:
    send_batch_size: 200
```

After each pipeline component is configured, you will enable it within the
`service` section of the configuration file.

```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: ["otlp"]
      processors: ["batch"]
      exporters: ["googlecloud"]
```

## Running the Collector

There are a couple of steps to run and use a Collector.

1. [Install the
   Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/installation/) binary.
   Pull a binary or Docker image for the OpenTelemetry contrib collector.

1. Set up credentials for telemetry backend.

1. Set up the Collector config. Below are some examples for setting up the
   Collector config:
    - [Google Cloud Exporter][google-cloud-exporter]
    - [Google Managed Service for Prometheus Exporter][google-prometheus-exporter]

1. Run the Collector with the configuration file.

    ```bash
    ./otelcol-contrib --config=collector-config.yaml
    ```

1. Run toolbox with the `--telemetry-otlp` flag. Configure it to send them to
   `http://127.0.0.1:4553` (for HTTP) or the Collector's URL.

    ```bash
    ./toolbox --telemetry-otlp=http://127.0.0.1:4553
    ```

1. Once telemetry datas are collected, you can view them in your telemetry
   backend. If you are using GCP exporters, telemetry will be visible in GCP
   dashboard at [Metrics Explorer][metrics-explorer] and [Trace
   Explorer][trace-explorer].

  {{< notice note >}}
  If you are exporting to Google Cloud monitoring, we recommend that you use
  the Google Cloud Exporter for traces and the Google Managed Service for
  Prometheus Exporter for metrics.
  {{< /notice >}}

[google-cloud-exporter]:
    https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/googlecloudexporter
[google-prometheus-exporter]:
    https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/googlemanagedprometheusexporter#example-configuration
[metrics-explorer]: https://console.cloud.google.com/monitoring/metrics-explorer
[trace-explorer]: https://console.cloud.google.com/traces

Commit message:

docs: telemetry docs to provide endpoint without scheme or path

docs/en/how-to/export_telemetry.md, after:

---
title: "Export Telemetry"
type: docs
weight: 5
description: >
  How to set up and configure Toolbox to use the Otel Collector.
---


## About

The [OpenTelemetry Collector][about-collector] offers a vendor-agnostic
implementation of how to receive, process and export telemetry data. It removes
the need to run, operate, and maintain multiple agents/collectors.

[about-collector]: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/

## Configure the Collector

To configure the collector, you will have to provide a configuration file. The
configuration file consists of four classes of pipeline component that access
telemetry data.

- `Receivers`
- `Processors`
- `Exporters`
- `Connectors`

Example of setting up the classes of pipeline components (in this example, we
don't use connectors):

```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      http:
        endpoint: "127.0.0.1:4553"

exporters:
  googlecloud:
    project: <YOUR_GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT>

processors:
  batch:
    send_batch_size: 200
```

After each pipeline component is configured, you will enable it within the
`service` section of the configuration file.

```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: ["otlp"]
      processors: ["batch"]
      exporters: ["googlecloud"]
```

## Running the Collector

There are a couple of steps to run and use a Collector.

1. [Install the
   Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/installation/) binary.
   Pull a binary or Docker image for the OpenTelemetry contrib collector.

1. Set up credentials for telemetry backend.

1. Set up the Collector config. Below are some examples for setting up the
   Collector config:
    - [Google Cloud Exporter][google-cloud-exporter]
    - [Google Managed Service for Prometheus Exporter][google-prometheus-exporter]

1. Run the Collector with the configuration file.

    ```bash
    ./otelcol-contrib --config=collector-config.yaml
    ```

1. Run toolbox with the `--telemetry-otlp` flag. Configure it to send them to
   `127.0.0.1:4553` (for HTTP) or the Collector's URL.

    ```bash
    ./toolbox --telemetry-otlp=127.0.0.1:4553
    ```

    {{< tip note >}}
    To pass an insecure endpoint, set environment variable `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_INSECURE=true`.
    {{< /tip >}}

1. Once telemetry datas are collected, you can view them in your telemetry
   backend. If you are using GCP exporters, telemetry will be visible in GCP
   dashboard at [Metrics Explorer][metrics-explorer] and [Trace
   Explorer][trace-explorer].

  {{< notice note >}}
  If you are exporting to Google Cloud monitoring, we recommend that you use
  the Google Cloud Exporter for traces and the Google Managed Service for
  Prometheus Exporter for metrics.
  {{< /notice >}}

[google-cloud-exporter]:
    https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/googlecloudexporter
[google-prometheus-exporter]:
    https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/googlemanagedprometheusexporter#example-configuration
[metrics-explorer]: https://console.cloud.google.com/monitoring/metrics-explorer
[trace-explorer]: https://console.cloud.google.com/traces
