docs/en/resources/tools/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-esql.md, before:

---
title: "elasticsearch-esql"
type: docs
weight: 2
description: >
  Execute ES|QL queries.
---

# elasticsearch-esql

Execute ES|QL queries.

This tool allows you to execute ES|QL queries against your Elasticsearch
cluster. You can use this to perform complex searches and aggregations.

See the [official documentation](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/query-languages/esql/esql-getting-started) for more information.

## Example

```yaml
tools:
  query_my_index:
    kind: elasticsearch-esql
    source: elasticsearch-source
    description: Use this tool to execute ES|QL queries.
    query: |
      FROM my-index
      | KEEP *
      | LIMIT ?limit
    parameters:
      - name: limit
        type: integer
        description: Limit the number of results.
        required: true
```

## Parameters

| **name**   | **type** | **required** | **description**                                                                                                                                    |
|------------|:--------:|:------------:|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| query      |  string  |     true     | The ES\|QL query to run.                                                                                                                           |
| format     | string | false | The format of the query. Default is json. Valid values are csv, json, tsv, txt, yaml, cbor, smile, or arrow.                                       |
| timeout    | integer |    false     | The timeout for the query in seconds. Default is 60 (1 minute).                                                                                    |
| parameters | [parameters](../#specifying-parameters) |    false     | List of [parameters](../#specifying-parameters) that will be used with the ES\|QL query.<br/>Only supports “string”, “integer”, “float”, “boolean”. |

Commit message:

feat(elasticsearch): update ESQL parameters to allow optional query input via parameters

docs/en/resources/tools/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-esql.md, after:

---
title: "elasticsearch-esql"
type: docs
weight: 2
description: >
  Execute ES|QL queries.
---

# elasticsearch-esql

Execute ES|QL queries.

This tool allows you to execute ES|QL queries against your Elasticsearch
cluster. You can use this to perform complex searches and aggregations.

See the [official documentation](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/query-languages/esql/esql-getting-started) for more information.

## Example

```yaml
tools:
  query_my_index:
    kind: elasticsearch-esql
    source: elasticsearch-source
    description: Use this tool to execute ES|QL queries.
    query: |
      FROM my-index
      | KEEP *
      | LIMIT ?limit
    parameters:
      - name: limit
        type: integer
        description: Limit the number of results.
        required: true
```

## Parameters

| **name**   | **type** | **required** | **description**                                                                                                                                     |
|------------|:--------:|:------------:|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| query      |  string  |    false     | The ES\|QL query to run. Can also be passed by parameters.                                                                                          |
| format     | string |    false     | The format of the query. Default is json. Valid values are csv, json, tsv, txt, yaml, cbor, smile, or arrow.                                        |
| timeout    | integer |    false     | The timeout for the query in seconds. Default is 60 (1 minute).                                                                                     |
| parameters | [parameters](../#specifying-parameters) |    false     | List of [parameters](../#specifying-parameters) that will be used with the ES\|QL query.<br/>Only supports “string”, “integer”, “float”, “boolean”. |
