docs/en/resources/tools/alloydb/alloydb-create-user.md, before:

---
title: "alloydb-create-user"
type: docs
weight: 2 
description: >
  The "alloydb-create-user" tool creates a new database user within a specified AlloyDB cluster.
aliases:
- /resources/tools/alloydb-create-user
---

## About

The `alloydb-create-user` tool creates a new database user (`ALLOYDB_BUILT_IN` or `ALLOYDB_IAM_USER`) within a specified cluster. It is compatible with [alloydb-admin](../../sources/alloydb-admin.md) source.

**Permissions & APIs Required:**
Before using, ensure the following on your GCP project:
1.  The [AlloyDB API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/alloydb.googleapis.com) is enabled.
2.  The user or service account executing the tool has the following IAM roles:
    -   `roles/alloydb.admin`: To create and manage AlloyDB users.

The tool takes the following input parameters:

| Parameter | Type | Description | Required |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `project`       | string        | The GCP project ID where the cluster exists.                                                         | Yes |
| `cluster`       | string        | The ID of the existing cluster where the user will be created.                                                        | Yes |
| `location`      | string        | The GCP location where the cluster exists (e.g., `us-central1`).                                                 | Yes |
| `user`          | string        | The name for the new user. Must be unique within the cluster.                                                        | Yes |
| `userType`      | string        | The type of user. Valid values: `ALLOYDB_BUILT_IN` and `ALLOYDB_IAM_USER`. `ALLOYDB_IAM_USER` is recommended.          | Yes |
| `password`      | string        | A secure password for the user. Required only if `userType` is `ALLOYDB_BUILT_IN`.                                          | No  |
| `databaseRoles` | array(string) | Optional. A list of database roles to grant to the new user (e.g., `pg_read_all_data`).                                     | No  |

## Example

```yaml
tools:
  create_user:
    kind: alloydb-create-user
    source: alloydb-admin-source
    description: Use this tool to create a new database user for an AlloyDB cluster.
```
## Reference
| **field**   |                  **type**                  | **required** | **description**                                                                                  |
|-------------|:------------------------------------------:|:------------:|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| kind        |                   string                   |     true     | Must be alloydb-create-user.                                                                     |
| source      |                   string                   |     true     | The name of an `alloydb-admin` source.                                                           |
| description |                   string                   |     false    | Description of the tool that is passed to the agent.                                             |

Commit message:

feat(tools/alloydb-create-instance): Add new custom tool kind for alloydb create-instance (#1379)
## Description

---
This pull request introduces a new custom tool kind
`alloydb-create-instance` that allows users to create a new AlloyDB
instance within a specified cluster.
### Example Configuration

```yaml
tools:
  create_instance:
    kind: alloydb-create-instance
    source: my-alloydb-admin-source
    description: Use this tool to create a new AlloyDB instance within a specified cluster.
```

### Example Request
``` 
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/tool/create_instance/invoke \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "project": "example-project",
    "location": "us-central1",
    "cluster": "example-cluster",
    "instance": "example-instance-id",
    "instanceType": "PRIMARY",
    "displayName": "example-instance"
}'
```

## PR Checklist

---
> Thank you for opening a Pull Request! Before submitting your PR, there
are a
> few things you can do to make sure it goes smoothly:

- [x] Make sure you reviewed

[CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/googleapis/genai-toolbox/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [ ] Make sure to open an issue as a

[bug/issue](https://github.com/googleapis/genai-toolbox/issues/new/choose)
before writing your code! That way we can discuss the change, evaluate
  designs, and agree on the general idea
- [x] Ensure the tests and linter pass
- [x] Code coverage does not decrease (if any source code was changed)
- [x] Appropriate docs were updated (if necessary)
- [x] Make sure to add `!` if this involve a breaking change

🛠️ Fixes #<issue_number_goes_here>

docs/en/resources/tools/alloydb/alloydb-create-user.md, after:

---
title: alloydb-create-user
type: docs
weight: 2
description: "The \"alloydb-create-user\" tool creates a new database user within a specified AlloyDB cluster.\n"
aliases: [/resources/tools/alloydb-create-user]
---

## About

The `alloydb-create-user` tool creates a new database user (`ALLOYDB_BUILT_IN` or `ALLOYDB_IAM_USER`) within a specified cluster. It is compatible with [alloydb-admin](../../sources/alloydb-admin.md) source.

**Permissions & APIs Required:**
Before using, ensure the following on your GCP project:

1.  The [AlloyDB API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/alloydb.googleapis.com) is enabled.
2.  The user or service account executing the tool has one of the following IAM roles:
    -   `roles/alloydb.admin` (the AlloyDB Admin predefined IAM role)
    -   `roles/owner` (the Owner basic IAM role)
    -   `roles/editor` (the Editor basic IAM role)

The tool takes the following input parameters:

| Parameter       | Type          | Description                                                                                                   | Required |
| :-------------- | :------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------- |
| `project`       | string        | The GCP project ID where the cluster exists.                                                                  | Yes      |
| `cluster`       | string        | The ID of the existing cluster where the user will be created.                                                | Yes      |
| `location`      | string        | The GCP location where the cluster exists (e.g., `us-central1`).                                              | Yes      |
| `user`          | string        | The name for the new user. Must be unique within the cluster.                                                 | Yes      |
| `userType`      | string        | The type of user. Valid values: `ALLOYDB_BUILT_IN` and `ALLOYDB_IAM_USER`. `ALLOYDB_IAM_USER` is recommended. | Yes      |
| `password`      | string        | A secure password for the user. Required only if `userType` is `ALLOYDB_BUILT_IN`.                            | No       |
| `databaseRoles` | array(string) | Optional. A list of database roles to grant to the new user (e.g., `pg_read_all_data`).                       | No       |

## Example

```yaml
tools:
  create_user:
    kind: alloydb-create-user
    source: alloydb-admin-source
    description: Use this tool to create a new database user for an AlloyDB cluster.
```

## Reference

| **field**   | **type** | **required** | **description**                                      |
| ----------- | :------: | :----------: | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| kind        |  string  |     true     | Must be alloydb-create-user.                         |
| source      |  string  |     true     | The name of an `alloydb-admin` source.               |
| description |  string  |     false    | Description of the tool that is passed to the agent. |
